etl/KNOWN_ISSUES.md, before:

### Vocabulary Data Loading

> omop_harvest=> \copy omop_drug_strength FROM './vocabulary_4_unrestricted_csv/drug_strength.csv' WITH DELIMITER ',' CSV HEADER
> ERROR:  duplicate key value violates unique constraint "omop_drug_strength_pkey"
> DETAIL:  Key (drug_concept_id)=(19113355) already exists.
> CONTEXT:  COPY omop_drug_strength, line 243

drug_strength.csv lines 1, 242-243:
> "DRUG_CONCEPT_ID","INGREDIENT_CONCEPT_ID","AMOUNT_VALUE","AMOUNT_UNIT","CONCENTRATION_VALUE","CONCENTRATION_ENUM_UNIT","CONCENTRATION_DENOM_UNIT","VALID_START_DATE","VALID_END_DATE","INVALID_REASON"
> 19113355,1125315,300,"mg",,,,1970-01-01,2099-12-31,
> 19113355,1201620,30,"mg",,,,1970-01-01,2099-12-31,

### Vocabulary Foreign Keys

> omop_harvest=> ALTER TABLE OMOP_SOURCE_TO_CONCEPT_MAP ADD CONSTRAINT OMOP_SOURCE_TO_CONCEPT_CONCEPT FOREIGN KEY (TARGET_CONCEPT_ID) REFERENCES OMOP_CONCEPT (CONCEPT_ID);
> ERROR:  insert or update on table "omop_source_to_concept_map" violates foreign key constraint "omop_source_to_concept_concept"
> DETAIL:  Key (target_concept_id)=(43084597) is not present in table "omop_concept".

> omop_harvest=> select * from omop_source_to_concept_map where (target_concept_id)=(43084597);
>  source_to_concept_map_id | source_code | source_vocabulary_id |          source_code_description          | target_concept_id | target_vocabulary_id |  mapping_type  | primary_map | valid_start_date | valid_end_date | invalid_reason
> --------------------------+-------------+----------------------+-------------------------------------------+-------------------+----------------------+----------------+-------------+------------------+----------------+----------------
>                   1015010 | 7G2AC00     |                   17 | Insertion of gonadorelin analogue implant |          43084597 |                    8 | PROCEDURE DRUG | Y           | 1970-01-01       | 2099-12-31     |
> (1 row)

### Vocabulary Use with OSIM2

> omop_harvest=> SELECT count(*) FROM omop_condition_era JOIN omop_concept ON omop_condition_era.condition_type_concept_id = omop_concept.concept_id;
>  count 
> -------
>      0
> (1 row)

omop_condition_era is loaded from OSIM2 which uses CDMV2, so OSIM2 column condition_occurrence_type was imported to CDMV4 column condition_type_concept_id following this line in the docs:
> condition_era; condition_type_concept_id; Changed name from condition_occurrence_type. Reference values are now stored as concepts in the concept table.

> omop_harvest=> SELECT count(*) FROM omop_drug_era JOIN omop_concept ON omop_drug_era.drug_type_concept_id = omop_concept.concept_id;
>  count
> -------
>      0
> (1 row)

omop_drug_era is loaded from OSIM2 which uses CDMV2, so OSIM2 column drug_exposure_type was imported to CDMV4 column drug_type_concept_id following this line in the docs:
> drug_era; drug_type_concept_id; Changed name from drug_exposure_type. Reference values are now stored as concepts in the concept table.

Commit message:

Update DDL code
Update the DDL code to match the progress in the PEDSnet repositories.
This update should still allow for use of the OSIM2 datasets. For that
reason, the remove_CDMV2_fields.sh script is added to pre-process OSIM2
data for use in the CDMV4 tables. The README is also modified to add
this step, but needs more modification and a possible re-working of
startup steps.

Fixes #16
Fixes #18

Signed-off-by: Aaron Browne <aaron0browne@gmail.com>

etl/KNOWN_ISSUES.md, after:

### Vocabulary Foreign Keys

> omop_harvest=> ALTER TABLE source_to_concept_map ADD CONSTRAINT source_to_concept_concept FOREIGN KEY (target_concept_id) REFERENCES concept (concept_id);
> ERROR:  insert or update on table "source_to_concept_map" violates foreign key constraint "source_to_concept_concept"
> DETAIL:  Key (target_concept_id)=(43084597) is not present in table "concept".

> omop_harvest=> select * from source_to_concept_map where (target_concept_id)=(43084597);
>  source_to_concept_map_id | source_code | source_vocabulary_id |          source_code_description          | target_concept_id | target_vocabulary_id |  mapping_type  | primary_map | valid_start_date | valid_end_date | invalid_reason
> --------------------------+-------------+----------------------+-------------------------------------------+-------------------+----------------------+----------------+-------------+------------------+----------------+----------------
>                   1015010 | 7G2AC00     |                   17 | Insertion of gonadorelin analogue implant |          43084597 |                    8 | PROCEDURE DRUG | Y           | 1970-01-01       | 2099-12-31     |
> (1 row)

In this implementation, the relevant record was deleted from the source_to_concept_map table.

### Vocabulary Use with OSIM2

> omop_harvest=> SELECT count(*) FROM condition_era JOIN concept ON condition_era.condition_type_concept_id = concept.concept_id;
>  count 
> -------
>      0
> (1 row)

condition_era is loaded from OSIM2 which uses CDMV2, so OSIM2 column condition_occurrence_type was imported to CDMV4 column condition_type_concept_id following this line in the docs:
> condition_era; condition_type_concept_id; Changed name from condition_occurrence_type. Reference values are now stored as concepts in the concept table.
Apparently, however, the OSIM2 data does not match Vocabulary V4 concepts.

> omop_harvest=> SELECT count(*) FROM drug_era JOIN concept ON drug_era.drug_type_concept_id = concept.concept_id;
>  count
> -------
>      0
> (1 row)

drug_era is loaded from OSIM2 which uses CDMV2, so OSIM2 column drug_exposure_type was imported to CDMV4 column drug_type_concept_id following this line in the docs:
> drug_era; drug_type_concept_id; Changed name from drug_exposure_type. Reference values are now stored as concepts in the concept table.
Apparently, however, the OSIM2 data does not match Vocabulary V4 concepts.
